otters seals LC arms are all descended
from an ancient group of hunting mammals
that were tempted in the water to become
fishermen but they've retained many much
the character of their ancestors their
fierce and aggressive so what about the
early quantity mammals
well they too went into the water about
35 million years ago because there's
quite a lot of water plants particularly
in shallow freshwater and they too have
retained the character of that ancestors
they're gentle grazers and here in the
warm clear waters of the Florida creeks
they still are mammotty
they're so completely at home in water
but they never leave it oh I suppose her
little halitosis is what you'd expect
from all those leaves but you that's a
bit strong
but what were those vegetarian ancestors
no one really knows some characteristics
link manatees to elephants in particular
their teeth these like those of
elephants are flat grinding molars as
they're worn down by the coarse grass
they're replaced by new ones that erupt
at the back of the jaw and slowly move
forward
manatees are so big that nothing much
attacks them and with plenty of
vegetation there for the taking
there's no need for them to be swift
swimmers
their forelimbs have become short
flippers that can be used as paddles or
to gently punt along the bottom they
still carry nails vestiges of their
terrestrial past
their hind legs have disappeared
altogether and they propel themselves on
their leisurely cruises with slow
powerful sweeps their huge tails
they're bristle a upper lip is so well
muscled that they can use it to grasp
leaves rip them up and push them into
their mouth so they have quiet gentle
lives trundling across the shallow
submarine pastures their other name is
sea cow and very appropriate it is too